Java student programming project I wrote thats serves as a micro student database.

It implements the following requirements:

A combo box that allows the user to select one of the four database actions shown. Implements as a HashMap, with the ID field as the key, and a student record consisting of a name and major as the value. Operations are performed when the user clicks the "Process Request" button. If the user attempts to insert a key that is already in the database, an error message displays using a JOptionPane message dialog box. If the user attempts to delete, find, or update a record that is not in the database, a message is displayed. After each successful operation is completed, a JOptionPane window is displayed confirming the success. In the case of a successful "Find" request, a window displays containing the student's ID, name, major and current GPA. When the user selects the "Update" request, a JOptionPane window displays information about the updated entry.

The program consists of two classes. The first class defines the GUI, and handles the database interactions. The second class defines the student record. This class has three methods. First, a constructor that is used when new student records are created, which accepts a name and major as parameters and initialize the fields that are used to compute the GPA to zero. Second, a method that accepts a course grade and credit hours, and updates the variables used to compute the GPA. It is called when an "Update" request is made. Third, a method that overrides "toString," and returns a labeled string containing the student name, major and GPA.
